DOC Add information about deprecations (#131)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/05_Contributing/18_Deprecations.md

---

> title: Deprecations

Reviewer: I don't think this belongs under `05_Contributing` - this is about peoples _own projects_.
Probably `03_Upgrading/02_Deprecations` would be appropriate. Since this is about deprecation warnings in one's own project during an upgrade.

Author: Opps.  I put it update 03_Upgrade/07_Deprecations - not 02 since there's already an 02 for "02_Upgrade_module"

---

> # Upgrade a project to CMS 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deprecations
```
This isn't about CMS 5 explicitly.

Author: Updated

> ## Updating your codebase to use Silverstripe CMS 5 API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Updating your codebase to use avoid using deprecated API in Silverstripe CMS
```

Author: Updated

You'll need to go through your codebase to remove references to deprecated APIs and update your project logic.

> Silverstripe CMS 5 introduces many API changes. They include a deprecation message that will either tell you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Major releases of Silverstripe CMS introduce many API changes. They include a deprecation message that will either tell you:
```

Author: Updated

- to simply use a different yet equivalent API instead, or
- the API in question has no replacement. This is usually for API that was mostly irrelevant.

To see deprecation warnings in your project and in your project's CI, add `SS_DEPRECATION_ENABLED=true` to your project's `.env` file.

Alternatively, add the following line to you project's `app/_config.php`.
```php
Deprecation::enable()
```

Deprecation notices will only ever show if your `SS_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE` is set to `dev`.

Your project will now start emitting deprecation warnings on the frontend if you are calling deprecated code, along with the different API you should now use instead, if a replacement exists.

> Not all API that was deprecated in CMS 4 that has an equivalent API has that API in CMS 4; some of the API is only available from CMS 5.  A good example of this is the upgrade for what powers the `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email` class from `swiftmailer` in CMS 4 to `symfony/mailer` in CMS 5.  You'll need to upgrade to CMS 5 before you can access the `symfony/mailer` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all API that gets deprecated will have an equivalent replacement API in that same major version; some of the API is only available from the next major release.  A good example of this is the upgrade for what powers the `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email` class from `swiftmailer` in CMS 4 to `symfony/mailer` in CMS 5. In these cases, you'll need to upgrade to the new major version before you can access the replacement API.
```

Author: Updated

> Your project will emit deprecation notices for these, although there may be nothing you can do to stop calling that code until you upgrade to CMS 5. In this case you should use the deprecation notice to construct a list of what you may need to change after upgrading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your project will emit deprecation notices for these, although there may be nothing you can do to stop calling that code until you upgrade to the new major version. In this case you should use the deprecation notice to construct a list of what you may need to change after upgrading.
```

Author: Updated
